docs: validate-auth command for Palette CLI (#5434)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/automation/palette-cli/commands/validate-auth.md

3. Provide the AWS Access Key ID for the IAM user that will perform the validation, and press Enter.

4. Provide the AWS Secret Access Key for the IAM user that will perform the validation, and press Enter.

5. Select either `IAM User` or `IAM Role` depending on what you want to check, and press Enter.

6. Provide the `IAM User name` or `IAM Role name` depending on what was chosen in step 5, and press Enter. This is the
   user or role that will be deploying clusters in your environment.

7. Choose the permission model to validate against. The `Comprehensive` model will check whether you have
   sufficient permissions for all Palette features. The `Minimal` model will only check for the privileges needed to
   create and delete clusters. Refer to the [Required IAM Policies](../../../clusters/public-cloud/aws/required-iam-policies.md) to learn more about AWS permissions needed by Palette.

   Once you have selected the permission model, press Enter.

8. You are prompted to answer `Will the cloud account be deploying EKS host clusters?`. Enter `y` if you want to check
   for sufficient permissions to deploy Amazon EKS clusters, or `n` if you do not.

> 9. Provide the default AWS region that the validation will be performed on. This does not have to match the region where
>    you intend to deploy clusters. Press Enter after providing the region.

Author: ```suggestion
9. Provide the default AWS region on which the validation will be performed. This should match the region where
   you intend to deploy clusters. Press Enter after providing the region.
```

Start the interactive steps.

```shell
palette validate-auth
```

Start the interactive steps and choose the cloud environment in advance.

```shell
palette validate-auth --cloud-env <aws|azure>
```

Start the interactive steps and specify the output directory for any generated resources.

```shell
palette validate-auth --outdir $(pwd)/resources
```

### Interactive Steps

The interactive steps change depending on the cloud environment chosen.

#### AWS

1. Issue the `validate-auth` command using the Palette CLI.

   ```shell
   palette validate-auth
   ```

2. When prompted, select `AWS` for the cloud environment, and press Enter.

3. Provide the AWS Access Key ID for the IAM user that will perform the validation, and press Enter.

4. Provide the AWS Secret Access Key for the IAM user that will perform the validation, and press Enter.

5. Select either `IAM User` or `IAM Role` depending on what you want to check, and press Enter.

6. Provide the `IAM User name` or `IAM Role name` depending on what was chosen in step 5, and press Enter. This is the
   user or role that will be deploying clusters in your environment.

> 7. Choose the permission model to validate against. The `Comprehensive` model will check that whether you have
>    sufficient permissions for all Palette features. The `Minimal` model will only check for the privileges needed to
>    create and delete clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Choose the permission model to validate against. The `Comprehensive` model will check whether you have
   sufficient permissions for all Palette features. The `Minimal` model will only check for the privileges needed to
   create and delete clusters. Refer to the [Required IAM Policies](../../../clusters/public-cloud/aws/required-iam-policies.md) to learn more about AWS permissions needed by Palette.
```

Cross-link to help the reader.

   Once you have selected the permission model, press Enter.

8. You are prompted to answer `Will the cloud account be deploying EKS host clusters?`. Enter `y` if you want to check
   for sufficient permissions to deploy Amazon EKS clusters, or `n` if you do not.

9. Provide the default AWS region that the validation will be performed on. This does not have to match the region where

>    you intend to deploy clusters. Press Enter after providing the region.

Reviewer: We should tell users to aim at the region they want to deploy clusters to. Service quotas vary by AWS region so by checking the target region, they can catch issues sooner.

   Example.

   ```shell hideClipboard
   Default AWS region: eu-west-1
   ```

The validation process will now execute and output the results to your terminal.

#### Azure

1. Issue the `validate-auth` command using the Palette CLI.

   ```shell
   palette validate-auth
   ```

2. When prompted, select `Azure` for the cloud environment, and press Enter.

3. Provide the Tenant ID for your Azure subscription, and press Enter.

4. Provide the client ID for the service principal that will perform the validation, and press Enter.

5. Provide the client secret for the service principal that will perform the validation, and press Enter.

6. Select either `AzureCloud` or `AzureUSGovernment` as the environment that you want to perform the validation in, and
   press Enter.

7. Select either `IaaS` or `AKS` depending on what type of clusters you will be deploying, and press Enter.

> 8. Select either `Dynamic placement` or `Static placement` depending on the network configuration you require for your
>    clusters, and press Enter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Select either `Dynamic placement` or `Static placement` depending on the network configuration you require for your
   clusters, and press Enter. Refer to the [Required Permissions](../../../clusters/public-cloud/azure/required-permissions.md) page to learn more about Azure permissions needed by Palette.
```

9. Provide the Service Principal ID for the service principal that will be deploying clusters in your environment, and
   press Enter.

10. Provide the Subscription ID where the clusters will be deployed to, and press Enter.

11. Provide the resource group where the clusters will be deployed to, and press Enter. The resource group must exist
    within the Subscription ID provided in the previous step.

The validation process will now execute and output the results to your terminal.

### Validator File

> During the interactive steps, a validator file is generated that contains the permissions that the validator is

Author: ```suggestion
During the interactive steps, a Validator file is generated that contains the permissions that the validator is
```

> During the interactive steps, a Validator file is generated that contains the permissions that the validator is

Author: ```suggestion
During the interactive steps, a Validator file is generated that contains the permissions that the Validator is
```

searching for. It also contains the secret used to authorize the validation task. You are prompted to keep or remove
this file after the validation results are displayed.

Example.

```shell hideClipboard
 WARNING  Validator file validator-20250113_183600.yaml contains secret(s): AWS secret access key
Remove file validator-20250113_183600.yaml from disk? [Y/n]:
```

Enter `y` if you want to remove the specification file, or `n` if you want to keep it.

> ### Review Validation Results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Review Validation Results
```
This is important enough to warrant an H2 IMO :)

Author: Yeah that's fair.

A report is generated and outputted to your terminal after the validation process is complete. The report varies
depending on the outcome.

> #### Succeeded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Succeeded
```
We can make it an H3 now so it shows up in the outline nav bar. Also, should it be "Success" vs "Succeeded"?

If the validation is successful, the `State` field is set to `Succeeded`. The output varies slightly depending on the
cloud environment.

> ##### AWS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### AWS
```

When the IAM user or role provided has all sufficient privileges, then the validation results will appear similar to the
following example.

```yaml hideClipboard
=================
Validation Result
=================

Plugin:           AWS
Name:             validator-plugin-aws-aws-validator
Namespace:        N/A
State:            Succeeded

------------
Rule Results
------------

Validation Rule:        validation-paletteclusteroperator
Validation Type:        aws-iam-user-policy
Status:                 True
Last Validated:         2025-01-14T19:58:12Z
Message:                All required IAM user policy permissions were found
```

> ##### Azure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Azure
```

> <!-- TBC -->
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

When the service principal provided has all sufficient privileges, then the validation results will appear similar to
the following example.

```yaml hideClipboard
=================
Validation Result
=================

Plugin:           Azure
Name:             validator-plugin-azure-azure-validator
Namespace:        N/A
State:            Succeeded

------------
Rule Results
------------

Validation Rule:        validation-paletteclusteroperator
Validation Type:        azure-rbac
Status:                 True
Last Validated:         2025-01-14T19:58:12Z
Message:                Principal has all required permissions.
```

> #### Failed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Failed
```

If the validation is not successful, the `State` field is set to `Failed`. The `Failures` section contains additional
information about the failure and will vary depending on the cloud environment.

> ##### AWS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### AWS
```

Validation Rule:        validation-paletteclusteroperator
Validation Type:        aws-iam-user-policy
Status:                 False
Last Validated:         2025-01-14T18:48:36Z
Message:                One or more required IAM permissions was not found, or a condition was not met

--------
Failures
--------
- Condition StringLike: iam:AWSServiceName=[autoscaling.amazonaws.com];  not applied to action(s) [iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole] for resource arn:*:iam::*:role/aws-service-role/autoscaling.amazonaws.com/AWSServiceRoleForAutoScaling from policy PaletteControllerPolicy
- v1alpha1.IamUserRule PaletteClusterOperator missing action(s): [autoscaling:CreateAutoScalingGroup autoscaling:DeleteAutoScalingGroup] for resource arn:*:autoscaling:*:*:autoScalingGroup:*:autoScalingGroupName/* from policy PaletteControllerPolicy
- v1alpha1.IamUserRule PaletteClusterOperator missing action(s): [s3:DeleteObject] for resource arn:*:s3:::* from policy PaletteControllerPolicy
- v1alpha1.IamUserRule PaletteClusterOperator missing action(s): [secretsmanager:CreateSecret secretsmanager:DeleteSecret] for resource arn:*:secretsmanager:*:*:secret:aws.cluster.x-k8s.io/* from policy PaletteNodesPolicy
```

> Use the output to help you address the validation failures. In this example, the validator identified two types of IAM

Author: ```suggestion
Use the output to help you address the validation failures. In this example, the Validator identified two types of IAM
```

following table summarizes the missing actions and their required resource scopes, identifying which Palette policy
should contain these permissions.

| **IAM Policy**              | **Missing Actions**                                                              | **Resource Scope**                                                |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **PaletteControllerPolicy** | `autoscaling:CreateAutoScalingGroup` <br /> `autoscaling:DeleteAutoScalingGroup` | `arn:*:autoscaling:*:*:autoScalingGroup:*:autoScalingGroupName/*` |
| **PaletteControllerPolicy** | `s3:DeleteObject`                                                                | `arn:*:s3:::*`                                                    |
| **PaletteNodesPolicy**      | `secretsmanager:CreateSecret` <br /> `secretsmanager:DeleteSecret`               | `arn:*:secretsmanager:*:*:secret:aws.cluster.x-k8s.io/*`          |

To resolve the missing conditions, apply the required conditions to the specified actions. From interpreting the example

> extract below, the validator detected that the **PaletteControllerPolicy** IAM policy requires a condition to be added

Author: ```suggestion
extract below, the Validator detected that the **PaletteControllerPolicy** IAM policy requires a condition to be added
```

for the `iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole` action to restrict service-linked role creation specifically to Auto Scaling
services.

```yaml hideClipboard
- Condition StringLike:
    iam:AWSServiceName=[autoscaling.amazonaws.com];  not applied to action(s) [iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole] for resource
    arn:*:iam::*:role/aws-service-role/autoscaling.amazonaws.com/AWSServiceRoleForAutoScaling from policy
    PaletteControllerPolicy
```

> ##### Azure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Azure
```

> <!-- TBC -->

Reviewer: @benradstone What is this for? This is not something we use.

Author: Forgot to take this out, it was for my own awareness to update once I got a full results output.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

In this example, validation failed for the `palette-spc` service principal due to missing permissions.

```yaml hideClipboard
=================
Validation Result
=================

Plugin:           Azure
Name:             validator-plugin-azure-azure-validator
Namespace:        N/A
State:            Failed

------------
Rule Results
------------

Validation Rule:        validation-palette-spc
Validation Type:        azure-rbac
Status:                 False
Last Validated:         2025-01-14T20:37:24Z
Message:                Principal lacks required permissions. See failures for details.

--------
Failures
--------
...
```

Use the output to help you address the validation failures.

> #### Resolve Failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Resolve Failures
```
